[WHOOSH]
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>JAMES FOX: If there was
tangible evidence being
withheld from the general public
that we might not be alone,
how significant of a
story would you give that?
I wanted to create a
feature-length documentary
film that would transcend
the UFO community.
How do you walk away from that?
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I've been wanting
to get this guy back
on the program for years,
and we finally did.
James Fox, the
director and producer
of critically acclaimed
UFO documentaries.
"50 Years of Denial,"
"Out of the Blue."
"I Know What I Saw," and
most recently the blockbuster
"The Phenomenon."
What a great film.
>>FOX: Well, thank you.
>>NOORY: How many years did it
take you to develop that, Jim?
>>FOX: From concept
to completion--
I started when I was 43 and
I finished when I was 52.
And when we were in the
edit room a number of times,
people would go, who's
that guy in South Amer--
oh, is that you?
[LAUGHS] I was like, yeah, I
definitely age in the process.
>>NOORY: Years of change.
>>FOX: Yes, definitely.
It was wearing, that's for sure.
>>NOORY: Well,
it's a great film.
>>FOX: Oh, thank you.
>>NOORY: And tell me
about the concept.
How did you develop it?
>>FOX: I have done three
other films, as you just
announced to your audience.
And when you have
a certain vision
in your head of how you
see things materializing,
and then when you
finish the film,
you're never quite satisfied.
And so I did another
film on the topic,
and that vision wasn't
quite fully satisfied,
even though I remember pushing
my editor and my co-producers
so hard that one of them
was-- this was in 2003--
one of them-- this was when I
was making "Out of the Blue--"
was in a fetal position
on the ground, crying.
And his wife turned
to me and she's
like, you're killing my husband!
Stop pushing him!
Stop it!
Just stop it!
>>NOORY: You are a driver.
>>FOX: And so I
realized, OK, I wanted
to create a
feature-length documentary
film on the topic of UFOs
that would transcend the UFO
community and penetrate a much
broader, global, mainstream
audience.
>>NOORY: And you've done that.
>>FOX: And so that's why
I kept pushing to do it.
And people say to me, you know,
I've seen some of the critics
online.
And I did a really
good job digging
up archival, never-before-seen
archived material.
But the history is
the history, and I
had to spend the first
45 minutes of the film
presenting my case to make
the second half of the film
tangible, digestible,
and believable,
because I was dealing
with, for the first time,
close encounters
of the third kind,
whereas the witnesses are
reporting beings associated
with the craft.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
What got you
interested in ufology?
>>FOX: Funny enough, I had a
really good friend of mine,
this guy Rene Harris
in high school,
we graduated from high school.
We were 18.
We flew to Europe.
We drove across.
We bought an old
beat-up Fiat 131,
and we drove it across London
and down into Portugal.
And we were really good friends.
And he was telling me
about UFOs and I just
thought, oh, man,
this guy, you know?
What was he-- and then he kept
kind of going on about it.
And then within a couple
of years, I kind of just
wrote him off.
And I just said, I can't
associate myself with this guy
anymore.
He's clearly lost his mind.
He's talking about
UFOs having crashed
and he's talking about this
huge government cover-up.
And I mentioned it
in passing to a guy
that I looked up to in the field
of videography and documentary
filmmaking.
And he said, oh, yeah, you don't
know about the Roswell crash?
You don't know about this?
And I said, well, no, Richard.
And he goes, oh, yeah,
that absolutely happened.
And that got me--
>>NOORY: That got you hooked.
>>FOX: It got me hooked.
And I started-- I went to
a couple of conferences.
I met a few military
guys and I thought, hmm.
There appears to be something
more than swamp gas and weather
balloons to this phenomenon.
I'm going to sink my teeth into
it a little bit, and I did.
>>NOORY: Was it Roswell
that hooked you?
>>FOX: It was Stanton Friedman.
>>NOORY: God rest his soul.
>>FOX: Yep.
It was Stanton Friedman.
It was Edgar
Mitchell, Apollo 14.
And Dr. Hynek after his time
with the United States Air
Force--
>>NOORY: Right.
When he came a believer.
>>FOX: When he became not just
a believer, but he was-- yeah,
he founded the CUFOS.
>>NOORY: Center for UFO Studies.
>>FOX: Started CUFOS.
He started doing all that.
And I thought, here's a guy that
worked in an official capacity
for the United States
Air Force from '47
to '69 whose job it was to
provide prosaic explanations
for the phenomenon when
clearly a lot of times
there wasn't one.
>>NOORY: And deny, deny, deny.
>>FOX: Deny, deny, deny.
And then he does
his flip, you know?
And I thought, there's
something going on here.
And look.
People say, why is it
that I do what I do?
And I answer that
question with a question
and say, hey, if there was
tangible evidence being
withheld from the general public
that we might not be alone,
how significant of a
story would you give that?
And people go, oh, well, jeez.
If that were true, that would be
the most significant discovery
of our time.
That's a 10 out of 10.
And I say, well, I'm
convinced it's happening.
So how do you walk
away from that?
>>NOORY: And we both know
Dr. J. Allen Hynek's son
Paul who would tell us that it
was the Lonnie Zamora police
officer in Socorro, New Mexico,
case that convinced J. Allen
Hynek, his father,
that these were real,
that something was going on.
In that case, Zamora was
driving his police cruiser
along the highway, and
he looks to the right
and sees what he thinks is
a white car flipped over.
And he went, oh my god.
So he stops, of course.
He's a police officer.
As he gets closer, he
notices it's not a white car,
but it's some kind of craft with
a couple occupants scurrying
around on the outside who see
him, jump in it, and take off.
Now, that's coming
from a police officer.
You've got to believe the guy.
>>FOX: What people don't know
about that case is that just
a week prior--
this was April 24, 1964.
A week prior, probably
five days prior,
Jacques Vallee,
Dr. Jacques Vallee
was at Wright-Patterson
Air Force
Base in Dayton,
Ohio, with Dr. Hynek.
And he was saying,
Dr. Hynek, you've
got to take a look
at the blue book
file cases that are marked--
they're written off
as psychological,
because those are the
close encounter cases.
And we've got those
happening in France.
There was a wave in the '50s of
landings and reports of beings.
And he was trying to tell Hynek,
you guys are writing them off
in your files as psychological,
but I'm telling you,
these are close encounters.
>>NOORY: Nut job cases.
>>FOX: Yeah, you've got
to look into these cases.
There's something to it.
And he was at Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base with him.
Two days later,
he gets the call.
There's a landing in
Socorro, New Mexico,
with a police officer,
Lonnie Zamora.
And there were military guys
on the scene within an hour.
They were physical trace
cases on the ground.
There were footprints
from the creatures.
There were smoldering
bushes from the propulsion.
They were massive imprints.
They determined the weight, the
diameter of the landing gear.
That is the most
well-documented close encounter
of the third kind in US history.
>>NOORY: Something's going
on, as you well know.
>>FOX: That changed.
And I interviewed for this
film, "The Phenomenon,"
I interviewed--
I got to know-- it's a
very tight-knit community
in Socorro, New Mexico.
You can't just come in as an
outsider and expect open doors.
I had to slowly--
>>NOORY: You need somebody
to feel confident.
>>FOX: Paul Harden kind
of got me in the door,
and I slowly got
to know the family.
I got to know the
wife, Mary Zamora.
I eventually got her comfortable
enough to go on camera.
>>NOORY: And Lonnie's gone now.
>>FOX: Lonnie was gone, but
I got a lot of wonderful--
I got to go into his archives
for the first time in history.
No one's ever gone into
his black duffel bag.
His wife trusted
me with that task.
I got flatbed scanners.
I scanned letters.
I scanned documents.
All the correspondence
between him and the Air Force.
His wife told me that he must
have seen something that truly
and profoundly changed
him, because he was never
the same after that encounter.
He had direct eye contact
with one of the beings,
because as you said earlier,
he was expecting to see--
>>NOORY: A flipped over car.
>>FOX: Yeah, when you're looking
at something you've never seen
before, it's very
difficult to kind of--
you want to provide some kind of
explanation that's a rational--
>>NOORY: And he sees
it from a distance.
>>FOX: He does.
>>NOORY: He's driving up.
>>FOX: But he gets eye contact
with one of the beings,
because he was calling out.
He was kind of
like, you guys OK?
These are kind of details
that I've learned about it.
And one of them turned and
looked him right in the eye,
so he had a direct--
>>NOORY: Oh, wow.
>>FOX: Yeah.
And his wife was convinced-- and
he went straight to the priest
after this incident
happened, and--
>>NOORY: He was shaken up.
>>FOX: He was very shaken
up, and he was never--
he was never the same.
And the aspect of the close
encounter of the third kind,
the beings associated
with the craft,
was something that the
United States Air Force
wanted to really downplay.
>>NOORY: Now we've been talking
about your incredible film,
"The Phenomenon."
Let's give our viewers a
little taste of what that is.
>>FOX: Great.
>> There are cases that are
not explainable in conventional
terms.
>> That have been made
by credible observers
of relatively incredible things.
>> We got right up to it.
It lit up.
>> Was this a warning?
Was this an attempt
to communicate?
>> I felt scared.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was running and playing,
and then I saw this maroon
color in the sky.
>> It was not anything
from this Earth.
>> It was looking at all of us.
>> Maybe they're
trying to communicate.
>> They were reaching out to us.
>> There is an immense array
of unanswered questions
and an urgent need to
get to the bottom of it.
>> The public has
a right to know.
>> My gosh.
Look at this thing.
>> The question is no longer
if they are here, but why.
>> What are they doing?
What do they want from us?
What are their motivations?
>> For over 75 years, there
have been sightings in the sky.
>> A UFO shut down several
missile silos in Montana.
>> This is unreal.
>> Thousands of
witnesses worldwide.
>> There had to be
a data collection.
I'm sure they
scanned the warheads.
>> Just kind of hovering there.
It never changed its
longitudinal axis.
And then it goes, poof, and
it takes off out the side.
>> And high-level cover-ups.
>> The government was covering
up what happened at Roswell.
>> Hiding these dark secrets.
>> I was told there wasn't
anything there when I knew
there was.
>> People need to know there
is something else out there.
>> Yes, there have been
visitation, crashed craft,
material recovered.
>> Shouldn't we be spending
some money to study all of these
phenomena?
>> I knew this was breaking news
for the front page of "The New
York Times."
>> They were trying
to communicate,
trying to tell us something.
>> Now it's time to
tell people about it.
>> These things are real.
They're here.
This is happening now.
>>NOORY: What a
gangbuster film, Jim.
And these are real people too.
That's what makes it
even more exciting.
>>FOX: You create
something, and then
you push it out of its nest,
and you hope it flies, right?
And you hope it's well received.
>>NOORY: And you don't know
what's going to happen.
>>FOX: You don't know
what's going to happen,
and you put your heart
and soul into it.
I mean, there were some very
dark moments of production
during that eight-year period.
I'm not going to lie.
Wonderful highlights as well.
But you really hope at
the end of the day--
because you're sitting
at the poker table
and you're pushing all in on one
bet, and it's a little scary.
>>NOORY: It is scary.
But that one bet paid off.
People love this film.
>>FOX: It's doing
really well, yeah.
And we have people arguing
over who's going to buy it.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Well, I noticed you had
a little bit of Edgar Mitchell.
>>FOX: You know, I did
that intentionally.
I did that intentionally.
>>NOORY: I miss him.
>>FOX: Tremendous
respect for him.
And I had to address Roswell.
And I was working
with Jacques Vellee,
who's the intellectual
heavyweight
in the world on the topic of--
>>NOORY: He's the French
guy in the movie--
>>FOX: "Close
Encounters," exactly.
And Jacques-- and
I know the baggage
that comes along with
Roswell, and people say
Roswell's been beaten to death.
But you know what?
I covered in the context of
I was doing the Rockefeller
initiative, and I was covering
that aspect of the production.
And Rockefeller was asked by
the Clinton administration
to choose a case they'd go
after, and he chose Roswell.
So I said, well, I have to do
a snapshot history of Roswell,
and I did.
I went after archival footage.
I mean, that stuff of Jesse
Marcel, that stuff's like--
that's the hardest
footage to ever
possibly get your hands on.
I can't tell you what we went
through to find that footage.
And then we treated it and
made it look really great.
But in any case,
Dr. Edgar Mitchell
grew up just outside Roswell.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>FOX: And he used
to tell me as a kid--
he remembers growing up there.
When he came back in the '70s
after he'd landed on the moon,
he knew all those ranchers.
They knew him, and
now he's famous.
And so they told him,
hey, you know what?
What crashed out here was
not a weather balloon at all.
It was not of this Earth.
>>NOORY: He told me once in--
let's see what he
may have told you--
that he never saw a UFO,
but he was told by people
in government, they exist.
Is that what you got too?
>>FOX: That's
exactly right, yeah.
Yeah, because there are things
circulating that Gordon Cooper
had UFO sightings in space.
That's not true.
Gordon Cooper did have a UFO
sighting while piloting--
>>NOORY: Took great pictures and
they took them from him, right?
>>FOX: Well--
>>NOORY: That's what I'm told.
>>FOX: Yeah, not-- that was
McDivitt, James McDivitt.
>>NOORY: They took the film.
>>FOX: Yes, they did.
Yes.
That is a legitimate
UFO encounter
that was captured on
film, James McDivitt.
But I was talking
about Gordon Cooper,
and there's also been
other things circulating
about Edgar Mitchell.
Edgar Mitchell was a proponent
for government transparency,
a firm believer that
we're being visited,
firm believer that Roswell
happened the way they initially
announced it happening.
An alien spaceship
crashed, bodies recovered.
You know, he's got
intelligence access.
But he himself had
never had a sighting.
And I believe that.
I believed him.
>>NOORY: We're losing some great
ufologists and investigators.
Edgar Mitchell, gone.
Stanton Friedman, gone.
Clifford Stone, gone.
A lot of people
but Hopkins, gone.
John Mack, gone.
Do we have people coming
up through the ranks
to keep this thing going?
>>FOX: [SIGH] Well, I'm
doing the best I can to get--
>>NOORY: You're one of them.
>>FOX: Well, no.
I'm doing the best I can to
get the level of interest up.
I'm targeting a
younger generation.
I'm doing--
>>NOORY: But I don't consider
you a UFO researcher.
You're a producer.
You're an expert when it comes
to putting together visuals.
>>FOX: But I get in the field
and I travel to location.
I go to the landing sites.
I go to Africa and
Australia and South Africa
and China and Russia
and all across Europe
and meet with the witnesses.
I go to the landing sites.
I do all that.
I go to the National Archives.
So I'm a researcher,
director, filmmaker for sure.
>>NOORY: First and foremost.
>>FOX: But I don't
consider myself
one of the preeminent--
but the cases
that I do know, I know
not from reading a book.
I know from actually going.
Like, with the Socorro case,
I know that case pretty well.
And I went to the
National Archives.
I read the books.
>>NOORY: Yeah, you
said some things
I didn't even know about.
>>FOX: Yeah, and I
met with the family
and I met with his
coworkers, and there
are aspects of that encounter
that didn't end up in the film.
But anyway, yeah.
So I am a researcher,
but I'm more a filmmaker.
And my goal is to put the most
credible evidence together
in a package that could be
presented to mainstream, that
could be presented to the
scientific community, that
could be accepted to
say, hey, look, guys.
There's something going on.
There doesn't appear to be
a terrestrial explanation.
Let's look into this further,
and let's encourage government
transparency.
We have a call to action
at the end of the film.
>>NOORY: Well, let's
hope they do it.
>>FOX: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: What's going on
with government right now?
I mean, we see these
UFO stories with pilots.
We hear all about
these incredible cases.
We hear that the government
is spending millions
of dollars in research.
What's going on?
>>FOX: So because of the
success of this film and some
of the people that
I had exposure to--
Christopher Mellon,
Elizondo, "New York Times,"
obviously Jacques Vellee--
I'm told that-- oh,
Senator Harry Reid--
I'm told that the
evidence that was released
on the front page of
"The New York Times"
is just the tip of the iceberg.
>>NOORY: Well, talking
about former Senator Reid,
let's take a look at
what he had to say.
Then we'll come back
and get your reaction.
>>FOX: Excellent.
>> Senator Harry Reid who
instigated the secret Pentagon
UFO program confirmed what
nuclear launch officers have
been reporting for decades.
>>HARRY REID: There's
more than one up there.
>> UFOs have interfered with
our country's most powerful
weapons.
>>REID: If they had been
called upon by the president
to launch, they
couldn't have done it.
>>FOX: Did you have
anybody in the Defense
Department, the Pentagon
pull you aside, bend your ear
and say, [TONGUE CLICK]
why are you doing this?
>>REID: I did everything
I could to stop
the program from going forward.
They gave the person
that came to me initially
such a bad time.
He's fortunate to have
hung onto his job,
because people tried to get
rid of him, because they
wanted nothing to do with this.
The Defense Intelligence
Agency was one of the worst.
They drug their
feet, even though one
of their senior
scientists thought
they should look at this.
And remember, all
were saying nobody
has to agree why it's there.
But shouldn't we at least
be spending some money
to study all of
these phenomenon?
Shouldn't we study this stuff?
The answer is yes, and
that's all this was about.
And why the federal government
all these years has covered up,
put brake pads on
everything, stopped it,
I think it's very, very
bad for our country.
>>FOX: I interviewed Gordon
Cooper, mercury astronaut
Gordon Cooper back in the '90s.
Cooper said on camera that
there was a landed UFO circa
1957 at Edwards Air Force Base.
His camera crew captured
the filming of this object.
And he presented this
to the higher ups,
and eventually a courier
jet came in from Washington.
He handed the footage
over, which was good.
He viewed it.
>>REID: That's the
last he saw of it.
>>FOX: Exactly.
Did you know where that footage
went of the flying saucer
that landed on the--
>>GORDON COOPER: It
went to Washington.
That's all I know.
>>FOX: Did you ever keep in
touch with anybody about it
or discuss it?
>>COOPER: How would I keep in
touch with anybody about it?
There's no way
within the military
or within the government of
keeping track of something that
is classified.
>>FOX: Did you try to go
after stuff like this?
>>REID: It's there.
>>FOX: Are you
saying that there's
some evidence that still
hasn't seen the light of day?
>>REID: I'm saying most of it
hasn't seen the light of day.
>>NOORY: That's priceless.
Priceless.
>>FOX: Isn't that amazing?
>>NOORY: That Cooper stuff--
>>FOX: I get the chills.
I get the chills to this day.
To this day.
So let me tell you
how that happened,
because getting the interview
with Senator Harry Reid
was a miracle.
It took several months
of negotiations.
And there was a very narrow
window for us to strike.
And George Knapp was
incredibly instrumental,
working tirelessly behind
the scenes to make it happen.
>>NOORY: He's one of the
best reporters out there.
>>FOX: Love George Knapp.
Tremendous respect for him.
And we got the interview.
And five minutes before
it was supposed to start,
I get a phone call, and
everything's falling apart,
you know?
This interview's about
to get terminated.
Apparently someone on your
set is really irritated.
I suggest you do
damage control, stat.
So I'm looking around
the room, going, who
on Earth would screw this up?
This is the biggest
moment of my life!
You know?
Anyway, it almost fell
apart at the last minute.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>FOX: Oh, I'm not
kidding you, man.
>>NOORY: That was
not a joke, then?
>>FOX: Your audience's
eyes would glaze over
if I give you all the details.
Suffice to say I
did five minutes
before go time damage control,
patched it back together,
and I made it happen.
But when Senator
Harry Reid arrived,
it was like an entourage.
Like, you knew someone important
had just walked into the room.
He had this big guy
that would look at me.
Any time I went near
him, I'd get permission.
Can I stand next
to him, you know?
And he's kind of watching
me the whole time.
>>NOORY: No, no, no.
>>FOX: This is his job.
I guess he's former
Senate Majority Leader.
He's got security.
They've got to watch him.
Anyway, I didn't want to
push his comfort zone,
and I didn't know where
his comfort zone was.
And at any moment, he could
just get up and walk out.
So I was very careful in my
approach and kind of feeling
him out a little bit.
And he had a very narrow--
like, his window of time was--
I don't know.
Maybe 48 minutes.
>>NOORY: And it looks like
he didn't hold back, though.
>>FOX: No.
Coming in, we're going out.
And so when things started
to get more relaxed,
I thought, let me push
the envelope a little bit,
and let me see how much
I can get out of him.
And that's when I
said, hey, let me--
I was interviewing Gordon
Cooper, mercury astronaut
Gordon Cooper in the '90s.
And he told me about this
landing incident that
happened at Edwards Air
Force Base circa 1957,
and it was filmed.
And the film footage was
handed off to a courier jet
from Washington.
Where is that stuff?
And he finishes my sentence.
And he says, hey, you know?
And it was never seen
or heard from again.
I went, exactly.
And then I said,
are you suggesting
that there's evidence that
hasn't seen the light of day?
And he takes a sip
of his water, and you
could tell he was thinking.
The moment seemed pregnant.
I mean, it was a paused moment.
But then he says, I'm saying
that most of the evidence--
I think he just said,
to heck with it.
Let's let it out.
>>NOORY: Well, he's retired now.
So have we lost an ally here?
>>FOX: No, he's still
working behind the scenes.
>>NOORY: Is he?
>>FOX: Oh, yes, he is.
Yeah.
And so here's
where we are today.
We know through Elizondo and
the likes of Mellon and Senator
Reid and a handful of others--
>>NOORY: These are the To the
Stars Academy group, right?
>>FOX: Well, yes and no.
Yes and no.
I think they've kind of
part ways a little bit.
Yeah.
Amicably.
And we know that there's lots of
evidence, photographic evidence
that has not been released.
And some of the
evidence, I've even
spoken to the people that have
seen it, that this is something
that I'm going after,
that we're going after,
and that's apparently
objects going
in and out of the oceans
that were photographed
by Navy pilots, one of which
I'm told was 50 feet away.
A very, very large
triangular-shaped
UFO that came out of the ocean
and went straight up to space.
Just-- [WHOOSH].
>>NOORY: And some of our
ships have been followed
underwater, submerged UFOs.
>>FOX: Got things
underwater too.
Yeah.
So this is something
that we know about,
that we know it exists.
And so our objective
is to continue our push
for transparency,
continue reporting
on what's happening today,
because this is a developing
story.
These things are
unfolding, right?
So we're going to start
documenting what's happening.
And there's a new task force.
There's people
within the task force
I think that would like to have
more government transparency.
They just need to know here from
us, the general public, hey--
they need an incentive.
So we're going after it.
>>NOORY: Now, what happened
that some of the schools?
I noticed you had
kids in the trailer.
>>FOX: Yes.
>>NOORY: What was going on?
Was that in Australia?
>>FOX: So there were
two landing cases
that I cover in the
film at schools.
One of them happened
thanks to Paola Harris,
who turned me on to this
gentleman, James Rigney,
in 1966 at Westall, which
is a suburb of Melbourne.
>>NOORY: OK.
Australia.
>>FOX: Australia.
Thank you.
And it's kind of
hard to imagine--
I don't know what
your audience is
well briefed on
the topic of UFOs,
but I personally had a
difficult time thinking
that a landing could occur
at a school with hundreds
of witnesses in broad daylight--
>>NOORY: And nobody
hear anything about it.
>>FOX: And the whole
world not know about it.
So I always kind
of was a little bit
suspicious about these things.
But I went to Australia,
and I met the witnesses.
I went to the landing site.
>>NOORY: Who are all
grown up now, right?
>>FOX: Who are all grown up now.
And that Westall
1966 UFO landing case
is absolutely phenomenal.
I mean, it's--
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>FOX: It was right around
morning recess, about 10:00 AM.
Ironically, in the United
States, it was I think April 4.
With the time difference, there
were congressional hearings--
>>NOORY: There's like
a 15-hour difference.
>>FOX: Yeah.
So there were
congressional hearings.
And I figured this
out in the edit room.
There were
congressional hearings
that we covered 1966 with Dr.
Hynek, Secretary of the Air
Force.
This is all happening.
And as those hearings
were coming to an end
and they were walking out
of the halls of Congress,
a UFO lands at a school.
>>NOORY: No.
>>FOX: I swear to you, yes.
Look at the dates.
A UFO's landing at a school
at 10:00 in the morning.
10:30, something like this.
And there were
literally, according
to the science teacher
who I interviewed
and all the witnesses, 300-plus
witnesses standing outside
in broad daylight, watching
this craft maneuver.
And then it goes and it
lands outside of the school
playgrounds, but in
a part of the area
where the children
would run track.
It was like a grove of trees.
And so a bunch of kids
jumped the fence--
and against the will of
the teachers-- they just--
>>NOORY: And they're
chasing the UFO?
>>FOX: And they ran after where
it landed, and there it was,
sitting on the ground.
They got within
10, 12 feet of it.
I interview those
people in the movie.
It's absolutely incredible.
How many witnesses do you
know that come within 10
feet of a landing craft?
>>NOORY: Not many.
>>FOX: In broad daylight
with hundreds of witnesses?
>>NOORY: And the UFO
doesn't escape or take off.
>>FOX: It sat there for a
moment, and then it lifts off.
And it had perfectly
glow colors--
>>NOORY: Like it
wanted them to see it.
>>FOX: Of course.
I mean, yeah.
It landed.
It goes up off the
ground like this,
and then it turns this
way, and then rockets out
of sight they said like--
>>NOORY: Like sideways?
>>FOX: Yeah.
It went up off the ground
like this, and it pivots.
Now, the interesting
thing about this case
is that there was a
gentleman two days earlier.
And you'll know when you look
into UFO accounts, especially
very good ones like the
one I'm talking about now,
there's usually a wave.
There's usually a sighting
period of several days
prior and after that you'll
get reports of the same craft.
Well, there's a gentleman who
lived about 12 to 17 kilometers
away who took a
photograph of it,
and he described it
exactly the same way,
that it kind of
floated down like this.
And then right
before it took off,
it pivoted straight up and down
and then went and shot off.
He said like a gun
leaving the barrel--
like a bullet leaving
the barrel of a gun.
>>NOORY: Well, let's
take a closer look
at what some of them said
when you interviewed them.
>>FOX: Excellent.
>> For the first time
in nearly 20 years,
the aerial schoolchildren
gathered from the four corners
of the world to talk to each
other about the experience they
shared that September morning.
>>SALMA SIDDICK: I
remember something there.
>> One they all still
struggle to understand.
>>TRIM: You know that
it's moving, but you--
>>SIDDICK: I stand
by what I saw.
There was no reason for
any of us to make that up.
>>EMMA JELIC KRISTIANSEN: I've
not spoken to anybody about it,
not because I'm not proud
of it, but because I
don't want the stigma.
>>LISIL FIELD: So it's
something that I've
had to deal with for
19 and 1/2 years.
>>SIDDICK: I don't want to
say I felt like I knew it,
but I knew that I didn't
have to be afraid of it.
>> They took us back to
the moment of contact.
>>KRISTIANSEN: Exactly
how I felt. Exactly.
>> The details still
seared into memory.
>>KRISTIANSEN: I was with
one of the other girls
and saying to her,
this is amazing.
>>KAYLEIGH VAN DRUTEN:
We all were just
stopped in our tracks.
>>KUDZANAI MUNYA:
The little man appear
on top of the actual craft.
And that moment for
me was very distinct,
because I was like,
that's not human.
>>EMILY TRIM: Well, I was
just completely engulfed
in these eyes.
>>SIDDICK: The eyes.
And in that moment,
however long it
was, because I have no
idea of the time frame,
it was just-- it
was mesmerizing.
>>TRIM: There was no
talking, and it's all just
images in the head.
>>NOORY: They're all
grown up now, aren't they?
>>FOX: So basically,
I look at that footage
and I think about my previous
film, "I know What I Saw."
And it almost got picked
up by Lionsgate, which
would have been a massive--
>>NOORY: Oh, that
would have been huge.
>>FOX: Huge.
Not just their distribution
platform, but the money.
Everything would
have been great.
And last minute they took a
pass, and I was devastated.
And they said-- and I ended
up selling to A&E, but anyway.
And they said, your
production qualities
were just not quite
up to standard.
So when I look at that footage
now-- because when I shot this,
I said, I'm hiring
the top camera guys,
the top cameras, the top audio.
And I want it to look
like "60 Minutes."
And I look at that,
and I'm like, I did it.
>>NOORY: You did it.
>>FOX: I did it.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: You did it.
Good for you.
>>FOX: Yeah.
And I remember at the
time trying to talk my--
this guy, investor in.
He says, a UFO landed in a
school and the occupants got
out and the whole
world doesn't-- no way.
I said, just please, listen.
Hear me out.
>>NOORY: Why do you
think there's a cover-up?
>>FOX: I feel very comfortable
answering this question.
You can't expose what
you know without exposing
your vulnerabilities.
And you can't expose what
you know without exposing
what you don't know.
>>NOORY: And then you
also have to say why
you lied over all these years.
>>FOX: Well, of course.
But it actually makes sense.
If you think about it
from their standpoint,
if you're in charge of
controlling the airspace
and you've got these
unknown objects--
>>NOORY: And you
can't control it.
>>FOX: --and you can't control
it, you going to disclose that?
So you have to say,
hey, by the way,
it's been brought
to my attention
that there are these unknown
craft whizzing around
with impunity.
We have no idea
who they are, where
they come from, what they want.
And you know, they run rings
around our fastest jets.
>>NOORY: And they're
abducting people.
>>FOX: Yeah, there's that
element too, potentially.
So you know, I get--
I understand why the
secrecy, but I think
it's time this is coming out.
I think there's a lot
of momentum happening.
I think everything
changed from 2017
with the front page of
"The New York Times"
reporting that secret
Pentagon UFO program, AATIP,
and the fact that former Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid--
whether you're on
his side politically
or not doesn't matter.
Someone of his
stature coming forward
and basically confirming
what we already expected.
>>NOORY: Who pushed
him, Bigelow?
>>FOX: He's got a great
relationship with Bigelow.
But what got him to
totally come forward?
You know, I think people just
get to a point where they say,
I'm not going to no longer
worry about the repercussions.
>>NOORY: Somebody
taught him something.
Somebody taught him
the fact that there's
been a cover-up, because I
don't think he knew this.
>>FOX: He had a
level of pushback
in the intelligence community.
This is one of the things
he admitted to me on camera.
He said, look, I just want
to get this project launched.
We're going to look
into the UAP phenomenon.
We're going to look.
And he had a tremendous
amount of pushback, which
he said was quite surprising.
>>NOORY: You mentioned
Richard Dolan.
Great ufologist, and
he was on "Open Minds"
talking about the cover-ups.
>>FOX: Yeah.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Let's take
it back to where a lot of this
really started, at least
the US part of the story.
Different in Germany and
the Soviet Union, but let's
start at Roswell.
>>RICHARD DOLAN: Mm-hmm.
Well, Roswell is
in a lot of ways
where it's appropriate
to start there.
Something happened at Roswell,
something very, very important.
And look, to this day
there are multiple--
I was going to say
two, but really there
are more than two sides
of the Roswell debate.
There's lots of nuance in this.
I do come down on the side
that there was an event.
Let's call it extraterrestrial.
Maybe it wasn't.
It wasn't us.
That's what I will say.
In the book "AD," Bryce and
I use the phrase the others,
because I don't
really know that they
are truly extraterrestrial.
I think that they are.
What happened at Roswell is that
during the height of the flying
saucer wave that was
overtaking the United States--
it was a big, big--
lots of talk about this.
In the midst of that, the
United States Army Air Force
stated to the world
that they had recovered
one of those flying disks
outside Roswell, New Mexico,
and then three hours later
retracted the whole thing
and said, oh, no.
Sorry.
Just a weather balloon.
Sorry for the confusion.
And then that story
died for 30 years
until it was resurrected by a
number of researchers who found
some of the original witnesses.
Roswell I think
absolutely happened,
and I think it's a
good starting point.
So let's just say that it did.
So you're the president
of the United States.
You're Harry Truman.
And let's say I'm your top
general or scientific advisor.
And I will come to
you and say, sir,
we have recovered
technology that
does not appear to
have been manufactured
by our civilization.
So that's really
where it starts.
So in other words,
you're being told
not simply that there are
these objects out there,
but that we got some
of that technology.
So you've got this heavy-duty
decision to think about.
What do you do?
Do you tell the world?
It's quite possible that
your instinct might have
been the world should know.
But then you'd think
about it, or your advisors
like me would talk
to you about it
and you'd realize that if
you told the world you had
this exotic technology, then
it becomes very difficult
not to share it.
>>MEREDITH: Well, I was
just going to bring that up.
There's one big incentive, yes.
>>DOLAN: I mean, after all,
you've got the incipient Cold
War taking place.
The Soviet Union and the United
States were not friendly.
And then other
nations in the world,
maybe you don't
want to share this.
And the other thing is it's
very likely that they would not
have had a whole lot of
information about who
these other beings were anyway.
You're going to go tell
the world about this
and then you're going to have
to answer a lot of questions.
You may not have
the information.
>>NOORY: James, Dolan's right.
He's right.
There is that cover-up.
And that could have been
some of the reasons.
>>FOX: If they did indeed--
and I believe they
did-- recover hardware--
whether they've successfully
reverse engineered it or not,
I don't know.
Some people are quite
confident that we have.
I'm not.
I don't know.
Maybe we have.
Maybe some of it we have.
>>NOORY: You haven't
stumbled across it.
>>FOX: But you can't
share it with your friends
without sharing it
with your enemies.
I totally get that part.
So yeah, that makes sense.
>>NOORY: What is your mission?
What do you want to happen?
>>FOX: I can't turn my
back on it at this stage.
I feel like as much as I'd like
to kick back and put my feet up
and enjoy the fruits
of my hard labor
with "The Phenomenon"
success, I feel
like I have to kind of
maintain the momentum
and keep contributing
to push governments,
because I know there's
a lot of people
within different governments
around the world that would
like to see the story come out.
They just need to know.
Like, give you an example.
When I talk with
elected officials,
they say, look, we're not going
to have congressional hearings
unless our cages are rattled
from our constituents.
We need to hear from
our constituents.
We're not going to
put our necks out,
talking about something
that's not quite
considered career-enhancing.
>>NOORY: They need
to know that they--
>>FOX: They need to know
that they have our support,
so they need to hear from us.
So I would just like to see more
government transparency, more
front page news articles
releasing evidence,
releasing the existence
of these programs
for the general public
around the world,
because I think that every man,
woman, and child is entitled
to this story--
>>NOORY: Will we get that?
>>FOX: --whether it's
a little scary or not.
I think we're getting it.
I really do.
I mean, look at
what's happening.
We got the front page
"The New York Times."
We got the--
>>NOORY: That's huge.
>>FOX: We've got the admission
of this official evidence.
>>NOORY: And you've got our
backing on "Coast to Coast"
and "Beyond Belief."
You know that.
>>FOX: It's not the best--
you know, the best evidence
is still out there,
and we're going after it.
But I want further government
transparency around the world.
>>NOORY: How do people
see "The Phenomenon?"
>>FOX: Good question.
So if you want to rent it,
just Google "The Phenomenon."
It's on a multitude
of platforms.
And just obviously, find the
least expensive platform,
like $3.99 or $4.99.
But if you want to buy it,
buy it from iTunes or Vimeo.
It comes with three
hours of bonus material
at no additional cost.
They just don't offer it
on the other platforms.
>>NOORY: Well, it's great
for anybody who is into UFOs
and wants to really get
to the bottom of this.
>>FOX: Yes.
And there's a call to action
at the end of the film.
You can contact
your representative,
say we want to push for further
government transparency.
We have a website,
thephenomenonfilm.com
And we would love it if
people would take the time
and rate the film.
It's tremendously helpful
for other platforms
to see that it's rating
well and it gets out there.
It's something that
the general public
can do to help get the
word out, is just to go
and simply rate the film.
>>NOORY: James, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>FOX: Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: The late "New
York Times" science writer
Walter Sullivan wrote a book
once called "We Are Not Alone."
And after looking at
snippets of the documentary
"The Phenomenon," I'm
convinced we are not alone.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]